<<<<<<< Updated upstream
﻿Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Trump’s inaction on the issue was rooted in sympathy for the Dreamers, coupled with a desire to create a careful plan for addressing their status.

The president is coming under intense pressure from the immigration hard-liners in his Republican base to keep his promise to end DACA.Credit
David Mcnew/Getty Images
Inside the White House, the president’s advisers are concerned that he has repeatedly referred to Dreamers, many of whom are in their 20s and 30s, in such sympathetic and politically loaded terms.

The president is weighing a variety of strategies for dealing with the roughly 840,000 Dreamers, according to senior officials, including Mr. Priebus, and lawmakers of both parties in Congress have been trying to devise legislation to carve out a special status for them.

The delay has outraged supporters of Mr. Trump’s who took his vows to rescind President Barack Obama’s program, called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals , very seriously.

Mr. Beck started a petition last month to demand that the president put an immediate end to the program, and opened a Twitter campaign encouraging people to send postings directly to Mr. Trump’s personal and official accounts, @POTUS and @realDonaldTrump, urging him to keep his pledge.

“But for a year and a half, he campaigned on deporting us on Day 1, and even now, he hasn’t taken that off the table.” Ms. Silva registered for a work permit in 2012, when Mr. Obama created the program, and received her third renewal last month.

2 Democrat in the Senate, who cornered Mr. Trump on the Dreamers at an inaugural lunch in the Capitol last month, had been optimistic about a deal on the issue until the hard-line immigration directives were announced.

“President Trump several times now has consistently come forward with positive and conciliatory statements about these people,” Mr. Durbin said in an interview, adding that the president’s immigration directives had created “a much different atmosphere.”

The bill would essentially replace Mr. Obama’s executive action with an expanded initiative that would allow at least 740,000 of those who had received reprieves and work permits to keep those benefits for three more years.

Mr. Flake has his own bill that would offer a three-year extension to those now covered by DACA, but it also would compel the Department of Homeland Security to deport within 90 days undocumented immigrants arrested or convicted in connection with serious crimes.
=======
﻿The White House usually asks career officials in such positions to stay on for a few months until their successors are confirmed.

Mark Toner, the State Department's acting spokesman, said in a statement that "These positions are political appointments, and require the President to nominate and the Senate to confirm them in these roles.

He had come back from retirement after the 2012 attack on the US consulate in Benghazi and promised to stay through the end of the Obama administration.

The firings leave a huge management hole at the State Department, with a combined 150 years of institutional experience among all of the named officials.

The second official echoed that the move appeared to be an effort by the new administration to "clean house" among the State Department's top leadership.

In her parting letter, Bond told her colleagues, "It has been an honor to serve with you as the Assistant Secretary for the past 17 months, and to have represented the United States as a Foreign Service officer for 40 years.

The American Foreign Service Association indicated in a statement that it sees many worthy career State Department employees as suitable replacements.

Given the talent available in our diplomatic corps, we expect that the new secretary will have no trouble finding the right people at State to fill out his senior leadership team," the group said.

Patrick Kennedy, who served for nine years as the undersecretary for management, Assistant Secretaries for Administration and Consular Affairs Joyce Anne Barr and Michele Bond, and Ambassador Gentry Smith, director of the Office for Foreign Missions, were sent letters by the White House that their service was no longer required, the sources told CNN.

All four, career officers serving in positions appointed by the President, submitted letters of resignation per tradition at the beginning of a new administration.
>>>>>>> Stashed changes

