<<<<<<< Updated upstream
﻿The administration, consumed with sweeping directives to increase deportations of other undocumented immigrants, does not have the capacity to manage the issue, he said.

I want to plan how we deal with this,’” Mr. Spicer said.

“Our immigration folks are like, ‘Stop calling them kids,’” Mr. Spicer said.

“But for a year and a half, he campaigned on deporting us on Day 1, and even now, he hasn’t taken that off the table.” Ms. Silva registered for a work permit in 2012, when Mr. Obama created the program, and received her third renewal last month.

“Saving Dreamers at the expense of families would be so painful,” Mr. Durbin added.

“So we are in a holding pattern, and many Republicans are waiting for a signal from the White House.”

Mr. Trump has a number of options for addressing the program.

He could rescind it, essentially invalidating the temporary work permits that have been issued since 2012.

The president could also pursue the matter through the courts.

So far, there has been little movement among other Republicans to support the bill, and many, especially members of the House, would accept it only if it were paired with strict border security provisions or were part of a large package that could include Mr. Trump’s plan for a wall along the Mexican border.
=======
﻿"These people are loyal to the secretary, the President and to the State Department.

This is the White House cleaning house."

They are not career appointments but of limited term."

Greg Starr, director of diplomatic security, also followed through on his planned resignation.

"This had been on course for over a year," another official said.

"He came out of retirement and promised to stay out (of) the administration.

The firings leave a huge management hole at the State Department, with a combined 150 years of institutional experience among all of the named officials.

"The skills that are needed for these positions are exceedingly rare outside the Foreign Service.

Correction: An earlier version of this story mischaracterized Victoria Nuland's departure.

She left on her own.
>>>>>>> Stashed changes

