<<<<<<< Updated upstream
﻿Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Trump’s inaction on the issue was rooted in sympathy for the Dreamers, coupled with a desire to create a careful plan for addressing their status.

The administration, consumed with sweeping directives to increase deportations of other undocumented immigrants, does not have the capacity to manage the issue, he said.

The president is coming under intense pressure from the immigration hard-liners in his Republican base to keep his promise to end DACA.Credit
David Mcnew/Getty Images
Inside the White House, the president’s advisers are concerned that he has repeatedly referred to Dreamers, many of whom are in their 20s and 30s, in such sympathetic and politically loaded terms.

For the time being, Mr. Trump’s administration is still issuing work permits to undocumented people under the program, leaving their protection intact even if their fate is in limbo.

Mr. Obama pressed Mr. Trump on the matter during their private meeting at the White House two days after the election, and said days before leaving office that he would publicly object if his successor sought to target Dreamers for deportation.

Representative Mo Brooks, Republican of Alabama, said that he did not mind a delay in dealing with the young immigrants, but that if Mr. Trump adopted Mr. Obama’s approach, “that would be most disappointing to me and a breach of an explicit campaign promise that helped Donald Trump win the primary and the campaign.”

“But for a year and a half, he campaigned on deporting us on Day 1, and even now, he hasn’t taken that off the table.” Ms. Silva registered for a work permit in 2012, when Mr. Obama created the program, and received her third renewal last month.

2 Democrat in the Senate, who cornered Mr. Trump on the Dreamers at an inaugural lunch in the Capitol last month, had been optimistic about a deal on the issue until the hard-line immigration directives were announced.

“President Trump several times now has consistently come forward with positive and conciliatory statements about these people,” Mr. Durbin said in an interview, adding that the president’s immigration directives had created “a much different atmosphere.”

A second order that Mr. Obama issued in 2014 to expand eligibility for the program and give legal status to as many as five million parents of Dreamers was quickly blocked by a legal challenge by the State of Texas, and the Supreme Court announced last year that it had deadlocked on the case, 4 to 4.
=======
﻿"Any implication that that these four people quit is wrong," one senior State Department official said.

"These people are loyal to the secretary, the President and to the State Department.

He continued, "Of the officers whose resignations were accepted, some will continue in the Foreign Service in other positions, and others will retire by choice or because they have exceeded the time limits of their grade in service."

The firings leave a huge management hole at the State Department, with a combined 150 years of institutional experience among all of the named officials.

The second official echoed that the move appeared to be an effort by the new administration to "clean house" among the State Department's top leadership.

Victoria Nuland, the State Department's assistant secretary for Europe, left on her own.

In her parting letter, Bond told her colleagues, "It has been an honor to serve with you as the Assistant Secretary for the past 17 months, and to have represented the United States as a Foreign Service officer for 40 years.

The American Foreign Service Association indicated in a statement that it sees many worthy career State Department employees as suitable replacements.

Patrick Kennedy, who served for nine years as the undersecretary for management, Assistant Secretaries for Administration and Consular Affairs Joyce Anne Barr and Michele Bond, and Ambassador Gentry Smith, director of the Office for Foreign Missions, were sent letters by the White House that their service was no longer required, the sources told CNN.

All four, career officers serving in positions appointed by the President, submitted letters of resignation per tradition at the beginning of a new administration.
>>>>>>> Stashed changes

